sfcasts/ep3-custom-data/denormalize-iris.md, before:

# Input DTO: Denormalizing IRI Strings

Status update: we created a `CheeseListingInput` class with all the properties
and groups that we need, we've configured `CheeseListing` to use that and we've
started creating a data transformer that will take the `CheeseListingInput` and
convert it into a `CheeseListing` whenever somebody sends JSON to a POST or PUT
endpoint.

## supportsTransformation()

In `supportsTransformation()`, we're dumping `$data`, `$to` and `$context`.
When we look over at the profiler... it's *slightly* different than what we
saw with our output transformer. This time, the data is an *array*: it's the
decoded JSON that we sent. The `$to` is the *target* class - `CheeseListing` -
and the `$context` is *also* interesting: it has an `input` key with class set
to `CheeseListingInput`.

Let's use this to fill in `supportsTransformation`. Start by checking if `$data`
is an `instanceOf CheeseListing`, which in our dump, it is *not*. But if it *is*,
then return `false`. This would mean that the object has *already* been transformed.

To be honest... I'm not sure if this is needed... but it's shown on the docs. There
might be some case where a transformer is called multiple times.

The *real* important part is the `return` down here: we support this transformation
if `$to === CheeseListing::class` *and* `$context['input']['class']` - or `null` if
it's not set - equals `CheeseListingInput::class`.

The first part makes sense: we want to return true if we are converting *into* a
`CheeseListing`. And the second part isn't needed in *our* app because we know
that `CheeseListing` will *always* use `CheeseListingInput` as its input class.
But since you can have different input classes on different operations, the
`$context` tells us which input class should be used for *this* operation. We're
using that to double-check.

Anyways, let's see if this is working! Dump all three arguments again inside of
`transform()`. And, to avoid an error, return an empty `CheeseListing` object
at the bottom.

Now spin over to the browser - I'll leave the profiler open - and hit "Execute"
to try it again. Let's see:  it's the same 400 validation error as before...
which makes sense! We're returning a new, empty `CheeseListing`.

Back on the profiler tab, hit "Latest", which should take us to the profiler for
the *latest* request. Yep! This dump is coming from line 13, which *proves* our
`supportsTransformation` is working!

Let's rename `$object` to `$input` and add some PHPDoc: we know this will be a
`CheeseListingInput`: the result of deserializing the JSON.

So... now our job is simple, right? Take this `CheeseListingInput` object, move
the data over onto a `CheeseListing` and return it. What could go wrong?

## Denormalizing IRIs into Objects

But... wait a second: check out the dump again in the profiler. The JSON *has*
been deserialized into this `CheeseListingInput` object, which is *cool*, but
look at the `owner` field. It's a string! I mean... that makes sense... because we
*are* sending this string in our JSON. But... does that mean we're supposed to
query for the `User` object manually using this IRI?

Nope! One of the jobs of the deserializer is to take each piece of data in the
JSON that we're sending and figure out what *type* it should be, like a string
`DateTime` object or `User` object. Then it does whatever work is needed to change
the raw data into that type - like creating a `DateTime` object from a date string.
There are various normalizers that are good at doing this.

And... *fortunately* API Platform comes with an `ItemNormalizer` whose job is to
change IRI strings into *objects* by querying the database... or... more accurately,
by calling the item data provider.

So why isn't that happening here? Why isn't the IRI string being changed into a
`User` object? Check out the `CheeseListingInput` class and look at the `owner`
property. The deserializer has *no* idea that this property is *supposed* to
hold a `User` object! And so, that `ItemNormalizer` doesn't know it should do
its work!

Let's help it: above this add `@var User`.

Head back to the browser, hit Execute and... once that finishes, go to the
Profiler, hit Latest and tada! The `owner` is now a `User` object! Adding proper
types to your properties is *very* important for deserialization.

Next, there's a small bug in the documentation that we actually just found a
way to work around. Let's see what it is and finish our data transformer.

Commit message:

Add code blocks to the denormalize-iris chapter

sfcasts/ep3-custom-data/denormalize-iris.md, after:

# Input DTO: Denormalizing IRI Strings

Status update: we created a `CheeseListingInput` class with all the properties
and groups that we need, we've configured `CheeseListing` to use that and we've
started creating a data transformer that will take the `CheeseListingInput` and
convert it into a `CheeseListing` whenever somebody sends JSON to a POST or PUT
endpoint.

## supportsTransformation()

In `supportsTransformation()`, we're dumping `$data`, `$to` and `$context`:

[[[ code('c261076f33') ]]]

When we look over at the profiler... it's *slightly* different than what we
saw with our output transformer. This time, the data is an *array*: it's the
decoded JSON that we sent. The `$to` is the *target* class - `CheeseListing` -
and the `$context` is *also* interesting: it has an `input` key with class set
to `CheeseListingInput`.

Let's use this to fill in `supportsTransformation()`. Start by checking if `$data`
is an `instanceOf CheeseListing`, which in our dump, it is *not*. But if it *is*,
then return `false`:

[[[ code('5fbe889882') ]]]

This would mean that the object has *already* been transformed.

To be honest... I'm not sure if this is needed... but it's shown on the docs. There
might be some case where a transformer is called multiple times.

The *real* important part is the `return` down here: we support this transformation
if `$to === CheeseListing::class` *and* `$context['input']['class']` - or `null` if
it's not set - equals `CheeseListingInput::class`:

[[[ code('d45facd1fa') ]]]

The first part makes sense: we want to return true if we are converting *into* a
`CheeseListing`. And the second part isn't needed in *our* app because we know
that `CheeseListing` will *always* use `CheeseListingInput` as its input class.
But since you can have different input classes on different operations, the
`$context` tells us which input class should be used for *this* operation. We're
using that to double-check.

Anyways, let's see if this is working! Dump all three arguments again inside of
`transform()`. And, to avoid an error, return an empty `CheeseListing` object
at the bottom:

[[[ code('edbdaff198') ]]]

Now spin over to the browser - I'll leave the profiler open - and hit "Execute"
to try it again. Let's see:  it's the same 400 validation error as before...
which makes sense! We're returning a new, empty `CheeseListing`.

Back on the profiler tab, hit "Latest", which should take us to the profiler for
the *latest* request. Yep! This dump is coming from line 13, which *proves* our
`supportsTransformation()` is working!

Let's rename `$object` to `$input` and add some PHPDoc: we know this will be a
`CheeseListingInput`: the result of deserializing the JSON:

[[[ code('32643671d0') ]]]

So... now our job is simple, right? Take this `CheeseListingInput` object, move
the data over onto a `CheeseListing` and return it. What could go wrong?

## Denormalizing IRIs into Objects

But... wait a second: check out the dump again in the profiler. The JSON *has*
been deserialized into this `CheeseListingInput` object, which is *cool*, but
look at the `owner` field. It's a string! I mean... that makes sense... because we
*are* sending this string in our JSON. But... does that mean we're supposed to
query for the `User` object manually using this IRI?

Nope! One of the jobs of the deserializer is to take each piece of data in the
JSON that we're sending and figure out what *type* it should be, like a string
`DateTime` object or `User` object. Then it does whatever work is needed to change
the raw data into that type - like creating a `DateTime` object from a date string.
There are various normalizers that are good at doing this.

And... *fortunately* API Platform comes with an `ItemNormalizer` whose job is to
change IRI strings into *objects* by querying the database... or... more accurately,
by calling the item data provider.

So why isn't that happening here? Why isn't the IRI string being changed into a
`User` object? Check out the `CheeseListingInput` class and look at the `owner`
property:

[[[ code('1d7cc661c0') ]]]

The deserializer has *no* idea that this property is *supposed* to  hold
a `User` object! And so, that `ItemNormalizer` doesn't know it should do its work!

Let's help it: above this add `@var User`:

[[[ code('1fb4e91f09') ]]]

Head back to the browser, hit Execute and... once that finishes, go to the
Profiler, hit Latest and tada! The `owner` is now a `User` object! Adding proper
types to your properties is *very* important for deserialization.

Next, there's a small bug in the documentation that we actually just found a
way to work around. Let's see what it is and finish our data transformer.
