sfcasts/ep3-custom-data/dto-update-problems.md, before:

# Input DTO Update Problems

Our `CheeseListingInput` DTO now works to create *new* listings, but it does *not*
work for updates. The reason is simple: our data transformer always creates *new*
`CheeseListing` objects. What we *really* need to do is query for an existing
`CheeseListing` object from the database when the operation is an update.

And... doing this is pretty easy! When we make a put request - or really, *any*
item operation - API Platform *already* queries for the underlying `CheeseListing`
entity object. We just need to *use* that in our transformer. How? API Platform
puts the current "item" for an item operation - the `CheeseListing` entity in this
case - onto the *context*.

## Fetching the Entity from the Context

Check it out: say if `isset($context[])` and look for a special key:
`AbstractItemNormalizer::OBJECT_TO_POPULATE`. Let me fix my syntax.

This is relates to a feature that's part of *Symfony's* serializer. And... I'm
being a bit lazy. The constant *actually* lives on one of AbstractItemNormalizer's
parent classes: `AbstractNormalizer` from Symfony. Feel free to reference that
class instead.

Anyways, normally, when you deserialize JSON into an object, the serializer
creates a *new* object. But if you want it to update an *existing* object, you
can tell the serializer to do that by passing that object on *this* key of the
`$context`.

In the case of an input DTO, the `OBJECT_TO_POPULATE` is *actually* the underlying
`CheeseListing` object. So we can say `$cheeseListing = ` and I'll copy that long
`$context` and paste it here. Else, copy and move up the
`$cheeseListing = new CheeseListing()` line.

That's it! Notice that this means the title *can't* be updated: if the user sent
that field on a PUT request, we *can't* change it on the final `CheeseListing`
because the *only* way to *set* title on `CheeseListing` is via the constructor.
There is no `setTitle()` method.

And... that was actually *already* the case before! The `title` field was *never*
used on update. API Platform does a great job of making our API work like our
classes work.

## Update Problem: Not Overriding Existing Data

Anywho, let's try this. Back at the docs, I still have the POST endpoint open.
Copy all the data we sent. And, let's see... this created a new cheese listing with
id `53`. Close up this operation, open the put operation, hit "Try it out",
enter 53 for the ID and, in the box, paste the fields. Let's change the price to
be 5,000.

Hit Execute. And... ah! 500 error!

> owner_id Cannot be null

Figuring this out requires some digging. Look over at `CheeseListingInput`.
The owner is in the `cheese:collection:post` group. Thanks to our denormalization
groups, this means that it will *only* be used during deserialization on the
create, POST operation. Yep, we're sending `owner`, but it's being ignored.

But... why is that a problem? That... *is* the behavior we want! The `owner` is
meant to be set on create, then never changed.

The issue is that when the serializer deserializes the JSON into the
`CheeseListingInput`, the `owner` property will be `null`... and then we pass that
`null` value onto `$cheeseListing->setOwner()`. When API Platform tries to save
the `CheeseListing` with no owner... error!

But... let's back up: there's a bigger problem that causes this. In reality,
when the `CheeseListingInput` object is passed to us, if a property on it is null,
we don't really know if that field is null because the user explicitly *sent*
`null` for a field - like `title: null` - or if they simply *omitted* the field.

And... that's important! If a field is *not* in the JSON for an update, it means
the field should *not* be changed: we should use the value from the database.

Ideally, this `CheeseListingInput` object would *first* be *initialized* using the
data from the `CheeseListing` that's in the database. And *then* the
JSON would be deserialized onto it. If we did this, any fields that were *not*
sent in the JSON would *remain* at their original values.

But... that does *not* happen and it means that we don't have enough information
in this function to figure out how to handle null fields.

## The new DataTransformerInitializerInterface

This is actually a missing feature in API Platform. Well, it was until we talked
to the API Platform team about it... and then they added the feature. They rock!
You can see it as [pull request 3701](https://github.com/api-platform/core/pull/3701)
and it should be available in API Platform 2.6.

Here's how it's going to work: you'll add a new interface to your data
transformer: `DataTransformerInitializerInterface`, which will force you to have
a new `initialize()` method.

As soon as you have this, API Platform will call it *before* the transform method.
Your job will be to grab the `OBJECT_TO_POPULATE` off of the `$context` - which
will be the `CheeseListing` from the database - and use it to create and initialize
the data on a `CheeseListingInput`. Then, when API Platform calls `transform()`,
it will pass us an input object that is pre-filled with data.

If you're using API Platform 2.6 and have any questions, let us know in the
comments. But since 2.6 hasn't been released yet, let's implement this feature
ourselves by leveraging a trick inside a custom normalizer. That's next.

Commit message:

Add code blocks to the dto-update-problems chapter

sfcasts/ep3-custom-data/dto-update-problems.md, after:

# Input DTO Update Problems

Our `CheeseListingInput` DTO now works to create *new* listings, but it does *not*
work for updates. The reason is simple: our data transformer always creates *new*
`CheeseListing` objects:

[[[ code('f390d4800a') ]]]

What we *really* need to do is query for an existing `CheeseListing` object
from the database when the operation is an update.

And... doing this is pretty easy! When we make a put request - or really, *any*
item operation - API Platform *already* queries for the underlying `CheeseListing`
entity object. We just need to *use* that in our transformer. How? API Platform
puts the current "item" for an item operation - the `CheeseListing` entity in this
case - onto the *context*.

## Fetching the Entity from the Context

Check it out: say if `isset($context[])` and look for a special key:
`AbstractItemNormalizer::OBJECT_TO_POPULATE`. Let me fix my syntax:

[[[ code('3fd6990e64') ]]]

This is relates to a feature that's part of *Symfony's* serializer. And... I'm
being a bit lazy. The constant *actually* lives on one of AbstractItemNormalizer's
parent classes: `AbstractNormalizer` from Symfony. Feel free to reference that
class instead.

Anyways, normally, when you deserialize JSON into an object, the serializer
creates a *new* object. But if you want it to update an *existing* object, you
can tell the serializer to do that by passing that object on *this* key of the
`$context`.

In the case of an input DTO, the `OBJECT_TO_POPULATE` is *actually* the underlying
`CheeseListing` object. So we can say `$cheeseListing = ` and I'll copy that long
`$context` and paste it here:

[[[ code('05c57ecb79') ]]]

Else, copy and move up the `$cheeseListing = new CheeseListing()` line:

[[[ code('90dd137917') ]]]

That's it! Notice that this means the title *can't* be updated: if the user sent
that field on a PUT request, we *can't* change it on the final `CheeseListing`
because the *only* way to *set* title on `CheeseListing` is via the constructor.
There is no `setTitle()` method.

And... that was actually *already* the case before! The `title` field was *never*
used on update. API Platform does a great job of making our API work like our
classes work.

## Update Problem: Not Overriding Existing Data

Anywho, let's try this. Back at the docs, I still have the POST endpoint open.
Copy all the data we sent. And, let's see... this created a new cheese listing with
id `53`. Close up this operation, open the put operation, hit "Try it out",
enter 53 for the ID and, in the box, paste the fields. Let's change the price to
be 5000.

Hit Execute. And... ah! 500 error!

> `owner_id` cannot be `null`

Figuring this out requires some digging. Look over at `CheeseListingInput`.
The owner is in the `cheese:collection:post` group:

[[[ code('70e8c2b793') ]]]

Thanks to our denormalization groups, this means that it will *only* be used
during deserialization on the  create, POST operation. Yep, we're sending `owner`,
but it's being ignored.

But... why is that a problem? That... *is* the behavior we want! The `owner` is
meant to be set on create, then never changed.

The issue is that when the serializer deserializes the JSON into the
`CheeseListingInput`, the `owner` property will be `null`... and then we pass that
`null` value onto `$cheeseListing->setOwner()`. When API Platform tries to save
the `CheeseListing` with no owner... error!

But... let's back up: there's a bigger problem that causes this. In reality,
when the `CheeseListingInput` object is passed to us, if a property on it is null,
we don't really know if that field is null because the user explicitly *sent*
`null` for a field - like `title: null` - or if they simply *omitted* the field.

And... that's important! If a field is *not* in the JSON for an update, it means
the field should *not* be changed: we should use the value from the database.

Ideally, this `CheeseListingInput` object would *first* be *initialized* using the
data from the `CheeseListing` that's in the database. And *then* the JSON would be
deserialized onto it. If we did this, any fields that were *not* sent in the JSON
would *remain* at their original values.

But... that does *not* happen and it means that we don't have enough information
in this function to figure out how to handle null fields.

## The new DataTransformerInitializerInterface

This is actually a missing feature in API Platform. Well, it was until we talked
to the API Platform team about it... and then they added the feature. They rock!
You can see it as [pull request 3701](https://github.com/api-platform/core/pull/3701)
and it should be available in API Platform 2.6.

Here's how it's going to work: you'll add a new interface to your data
transformer: `DataTransformerInitializerInterface`, which will force you to have
a new `initialize()` method.

As soon as you have this, API Platform will call it *before* the transform method.
Your job will be to grab the `OBJECT_TO_POPULATE` off of the `$context` - which
will be the `CheeseListing` from the database - and use it to create and initialize
the data on a `CheeseListingInput`. Then, when API Platform calls `transform()`,
it will pass us an input object that is pre-filled with data.

If you're using API Platform 2.6 and have any questions, let us know in the
comments. But since 2.6 hasn't been released yet, let's implement this feature
ourselves by leveraging a trick inside a custom normalizer. That's next.
